The blocks & groups area of the IBEX GUI is situated to the right of the [[Dashboard]].  It displays all the blocks defined for the currently loaded instrument configuration.  The blocks are arranged in groups.

.. contents:: **Contents**

Blocks
------
A block is, in effect, an alias for a process variable.  Process variables are defined in more detail on the [[ProcessVariables]] page.  Any process variable can be assigned to a block.  Blocks are defined in more detail on the [[Blocks]] page.

Run Control Indicators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A tick mark or an X mark next to a block indicates that the block is under run control.  

* An unadorned block (i.e. no symbol next to the value of the block) means the block is not under run control.
* An icon featuring a black check mark on a green background next to the value means the block is under run control and within its limits.
* An icon featuring a white X on a red background next to the value means that the block is under run control and outside its limits.

Alarm State Indicators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A coloured box surrounding the block indicates that the block is in an alarm state (or, more correctly, that the underlying PV is in an alarm state).

* No border means the block is connected and is not in an alarm state.
* An orange border around the block value means the block is under minor alarm.
* A red border around the block value means the block is under major alarm.
* A purple border around the block value means the block is disconnected.

If a block is in an alarm state, you should check the Alarms View to find out why an alarm has been raised.

If a block is flagged as being disconnected, it typically means there is a problem with the device which provides the value of the block or with the IOC which controls the device:

#. the IOC is not running. 
#. the IOC has not been correctly configured and, therefore, is not communicating correctly with the device.
#. the device is not connected to the instrument control PC (e.g. a cable is disconnected). 
#. the device is switched off.
#. there is a fault with the device.

The last of these possibilities is the least likely to occur.  It is good practice to rule out the other possibilities before concluding that there is a fault with the device.

Groups
------
Blocks can be arranged in groups.  This provides a convenient way to group related blocks.  You can create as many groups as you need to categorise your blocks.  

If you do not explicitly assign a block to a group, it will, by default, be assigned to a group called "Other".
