.. _CreateandManageComponents:

Create & Manage Components
==========================

Many instrument configurations feature a number of devices and settings in common.  A component is a mini configuration (or sub-configuration) which provides a means of defining a selection of IOCs, Blocks, Groups, etc. that can be treated as a single object.  Other configurations can then include the component which means that common IOCs, Block and other settings do not have to be repeatedly added to each configuration. It also means that changes need only be made to a single object - if a component is changed the changes will be inherited by all the configurations that use that component.

One of the most common and useful ways to use a component, is to create a "base" component.  A "base" component defines a configuration for all the devices permanently attached to an instrument.  Any new configuration can then include the "base" component and inherit all the IOCs, blocks, groups, macros, etc. associated with the permanent devices.

Contents
--------

#. `Create a Component`_
#. `Edit a Component`_
#. `Delete a Component`_

Create a Component
------------------

There are several ways to create a component:

Save an existing Configuration as a Component
   You can save an existing configuration as a component.  When you click on the ``Save as...`` button on the Edit Configuration dialog (see [[CreateandManageConfigurations]]) the resulting Save As... dialog contains a check-box labelled ``Save the configuration as a component``.  By default, this check-box is unchecked.  Click on the ``Save the configuration as a component`` check-box and then click the ``OK`` button to save the configuration as a component.

   Once you have saved the configuration as a component, you can edit it as a component.

Create a New Component
   You can create a new component directly from the ``Configuration`` menu.  Simply select ``Configurations > New`` from the ``Configuration`` menu.  IBEX will then display the New Configuration  dialog.
   
   The process of defining is the same as the process of defining a configuration - the New Component dialog is identical to the New Configuration dialog.  Refer to [[CreateandManageConfigurations]] for a full description of how use the various tabs on the New Component dialog.

Edit a Component
----------------

To edit a component:

#. Select ``Components > Edit`` from the ``Configuration`` menu.
#. IBEX displays the Edit Component dialog which is is identical to the New Component dialog.  Refer to [[CreateandManageConfigurations]] for a full description of how use the various tabs on the Edit Component dialog (as described in `Create a Component`_).

Delete a Component
------------------

To delete a component:

#. Select ``Components > Delete`` from the ``Configuration`` menu.
#. IBEX displays the Delete Component dialog, which lists all the components defined for your instrument.
#. Select a component from the list and press the ``OK`` button
#. IBEX deletes the selected component.

**Note:** When you delete a component it really is deleted. It is no longer available to be used by IBEX. Before deleting a component, please be sure that you really do want to delete it. If you unintentionally delete a component, please contact the Experimental Controls team - it may be possible to recover the deleted component.

