The Eurotherm is usually used to measure and control temperature; however it has also been used to measure pressures. It measures the resistance of an external sensor. 

.. contents:: **Contents**

Calibration
-----------

The two measurement modes in which the Eurotherm is used are:

#. Measuring a temperature directly: use the ``None.txt`` calibration file

#. Measuring a resistance and then using a calibration file to convert to a temperature: In which case use the calibration file which is correct for your sensor. The calibration files are in ``C:\Instrument\Settings\config\common\temp_sensors``

The calibration file is set using the `File` box in the `Sensor Calibration` area on the Eurotherm OPI.

Ramping
-------

The Eurotherm can be made to ramp slowly through a temperature gradient. It achieves this by updating the set point every 5s to create the desired ramp rate; It does not check that the Eurotherm can respond quickly enough. To set it into ramping mode:

#. Set the `Ramp rate` (N.B. The units of this are K/min)
#. Set `Ramp` to be on

When the Eurotherm is ramping the ramping light will be lit.

PID LookUp
----------

The PID and maximum heater settings can be set dependent on the setpoint temperature. To do this switch the lookup on using the button on the OPI; the light will illuminate.

The values for the settings are stored in a file in ``C:\Instrument\Settings\config\common\ramps``:

#. The ramp file is a space separated file of values for set point temperature, P, I, D and heater (see the example file for the format)
#. The file *must* be in set point temperature order small to large
#. The set points are the lowest temperature at which the values should be used.
#. Any set point lower than the first entry will use the first entry.

For example if your file was::

    SP P I D Heater
    100 10 11 12 13
    200 20 21 22 23
    300 30 31 32 33

Then a setpoint of:

- 220 would use `20 21 22 23`
- 300 would use `300 30 31 32 33`
- 10 would use `100 10 11 12 13`
