[[Scripting|scripting]] > [[genie_python Commands|genie_python-commands]]

Running genie\_python commands
==============================

When running ``genie_python`` from an interactive console such as from
the GUI or after running ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Python\genie_python.bat``,
the ``genie`` module will be aliased to ``g``. Genie commands can then
be accessed by using the prefix ``g.[COMMAND_NAME]``. For example:

::

    g.start()
    g.cset("BLOCK_1",1)
    g.abort()

This is particularly useful from the GUI which will auto-complete
commands and provide tool tips describing each function and its
arguments.

Note that in many cases, arguments will be optional. For instance,
``begin`` can be used as ``g.begin()`` despite supporting all of the
arguments ``period``, ``meas_id``, ``meas_type``, ``meas_subid``,
``sample_id``, ``delayed``, ``quiet``, ``paused``, and ``verbose``.

Running in simulation mode
--------------------------

Genie_python can be used in simulation mode. Simulation mode will allow you to run scripts but without changing items on your instrument. It does this by putting dummy commands in for some genie command, it also creates dummy blocks on the fly so that block values can be read and written to. **N.B.** This means that simulation can not be this will not validate your block names within the script. To run in simulation mode use the ``genie_python_simulate.bat`` found in ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Python``. 

Common genie\_python commands
=============================

Many ``genie_python`` commands share the same name with their Open GENIE
equivalent so it will often be very straightforward to find the function
you're looking for. Still, here is a list of the most commonly used
``genie_python`` commands. This is **not a complete list**. For full
information, consult the `genie\_python reference manual`_.


Starting and stopping a run
---------------------------

+-----------+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| Command   | Description                                        | Example      |
+===========+====================================================+==============+
| begin     | Starts a new run                                   | g.begin()    |
+-----------+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| end       | Ends the current run                               | g.end()      |
+-----------+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| abort     | Aborts the current run                             | g.abort()    |
+-----------+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| pause     | Pauses the current run                             | g.pause()    |
+-----------+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| resume    | Resumes the current run after it has been paused   | g.resume()   |
+-----------+----------------------------------------------------+--------------+

Updating blocks and PVs
-----------------------

+-----------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Command   | Description                                            | Example                                   |
+===========+========================================================+===========================================+
| cget      | Gets the useful values associated with a block         | g.cget("NEW\_BLOCK")                      |
+-----------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| cset      | Sets the setpoint and runcontrol settings for blocks   | g.cset("NEW\_BLOCK",1)                    |
+-----------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| get\_pv   | Gets the value for the specified PV                    | g.get\_pv("IN:INSTNAME:IOC\_01:STAT")     |
+-----------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| set\_pv   | Sets the value for the specified PV                    | g.set\_pv("IN:INSTNAME:IOC\_01:STAT",1)   |
+-----------+--------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

