ISIS staff are able to access an enhanced web dashboard plotting mechanism via the site https://svr2.nd.rl.ac.uk/grafana/ - login must be by federal id (without clrc prefix).  

## Plotting Multiple Traces 

Once logged in, if you click on the "compass" icon on the left (called "explore") at the top of the page you will then see a "metrics browser" where you can choose a logged item from an instrument. You can either type something into the box to search box (case sensitive) or click on the "metrics browser" menu and choose an item. Logged Blocks on instruments will start with the instrument name and end with `_value` e.g.  `IMAT_block_C1D1_FREQ_value`. After that, you can then add further queries to the same graph to get multiple traces (you may need to press `Run Query` after adding a new trace). These additions are then remembered in the "query history", when you "clear all" it starts a new item in the query history. This query history is per browser, so if you log in again with the same browser you should be able to go straight to a previous query you made (query history is saved for a few weeks). If you add multiple traces to a graph, you can click on individual trace names displayed below the graph to see just that line, and then click again to evert back. At one time i though "control click" gave additional control, but maybe not anymore. 

## Creating and Saving Dashboards

**Note:** you are welcome to experiment with this feature, but **please do not invest too much time** at the moment in creating dashboards as the Grafana system is still in evaluation and may not be the permanent eventual solution to web dashboard history.

It is possible for you to create, save and share your own custom panels of plots - these are called dashboards. To see an example click on the 4 squares icon that gives you the dashboard menu, choose Manage, then click on the IBEX folder and then on "example" – this dashboard displays two panels, a graph and a table. It is possible to create lots of separate dashboards with panels and tables and save them to the server in a folder. You just click on the "+" icon to create a dashboard, which can later be made visible to all or just selected people. It is best to create dashboards in a folder, then permissions can be applied to the folder rather than each individual dashboard in it. So keep dashboards for "users + staff" and "staff only" in separate folders. You will need to contact ISIS Experiment Controls group to change folder permissions if you wish to remove default user access.  

See https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/getting-started/getting-started/ for more details
