Introduction
============

Welcome to this introductory course on ``genie_python``, a Python module that enables instrument control using Genie commands with Python. Once you have completed this course, you will be able to do the following using ``genie_python``

- Start and stop runs
- Get and set block information
- Update experiment details
- Create specialised instrument and user scripts scripts
- Convert ``OpenGENIE`` scripts to ``genie_python``

At each stage the course aims to assist learning with exercises and worked examples. We will assume a basic working knowledge of Python.

Notably, ``genie_python`` does not cover data analysis. If you wish to do analysis in Python there are several options available:

- Python: The base Python language is very powerful and can do a lot of common mathematical functions. In particular, refer to the ``math`` module.
- Numpy: This is a numerical analysis module that is very powerful and comes bundled with the distribution of ``genie_python``
- Mantid: This has extensive coverage of the tools required by neutron and muon experiments. We will not cover it in this course but there is dedicated training available from the Mantid team if you'd like to learn more.

If you're looking for a specific section, please refer to the course contents below. Otherwise, let's [[get started|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Getting-started]]!

Contents
========

We expect that most people will take this course in a linear fashion, but if you have a specific query, the course is broadly split up into the following topics

- [[Getting started|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Getting-started]]
- [[Common commands|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Common-commands]]
- [[Scripting|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Scripting]]
- [[Converting from ``OpenGENIE``|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Converting-from-OpenGENIE]]
- [[Closing remarks|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Closing-remarks]]

Sample solutions to each of the exercises can be found here:

- [[Exercise solutions|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Exercise-solutions]]

--------------------------------------------------------------------

**Next**: [[Getting started|Ibex-and-genie_python:-Getting-started]]