.. contents:: **Contents**

Installing IBEX Client
----------------------

Installation of IBEX client on a PC is simple and straightforward.

Pre-requisites for running IBEX Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To run IBEX client, your PC must meet the following pre-requisites

#. Your PC must be running Windows 7 (Professional or Enterprise), Service Pack 1 (or higher), or Windows 10 (Professional or Enterprise), Build 10586 (or higher).

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Create a network drive to the installation kit:

::

      net use Z: \\isis.cclrc.ac.uk\inst$\Kits$\CompGroup\ICP\Releases  /user:CLRC\my_fed_id

substitute your federal-ID instead of ``my_fed_id``.  The command will prompt you for your password.  This command will map the shared folder ``\\isis\inst$\Kits$\CompGroup\ICP\Releases`` to the ``Z:`` drive.  You don't have to choose ``Z:`` as the drive letter, you can choose any drive letter you wish (provided it is not already in use on your PC).  Please take care to use the ``\`` and ``/`` characters exactly as shown in the above example, otherwise the command will not work (hint: it is easiest to cut/paste the above command into the command window).

2. Change to the ``Z:`` drive:

::

      Z:

3. On the ``Z:`` drive you will see a list of folders resembling the following:

::

      2.0.0
      2.1.0
      2.2.0
      ... etc.

Change to the folder with the highest value of ``N.M.O`` (e.g. ``cd 2.2.0`` in the above example).

4. In the folder ``N.M.O``, change to the Client folder: ``cd Client``

5. Run the command ``install_client.bat`` to copy the contents of the above directory to ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Client``. It will also install genie_python.

6. You might find it convenient to create a desktop shortcut to use to launch the IBEX client.  The path to the IBEX Client executable is ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Client_E4\ibex-client.exe``

7. Open up the firewall ports needed by the client by running the following command as Administrator in a command window:

::

    netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="Control SVCS Machine" dir=in action=allow protocol=UDP remoteip=130.246.51.171 remoteport=5064 profile=any

Installation Layout
-------------------

After installation, the current paths are used by the various components.

+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Item                                                  | Path                                                              |
+=======================================================+===================================================================+
|IBEX Client                                            |  ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Client_E4``                                 | 
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| genie_python (include python and dependencies)        | ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Python3``                                     |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| EPICS utilities                                       | ``C:\Instrument\Apps\Python3\EPICS_UTILS``                         |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Server Code and executables                           | ``c:\Instrument\Apps\EPICS``                                      |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Server Settings                                       | ``C:\Instrument\Settings\config\<Instument name>\configurations`` |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Common settings files (e.g. sensor calibration files) | ``C:\Instrument\Settings\config\common``                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Server logs, autosave and database files              |  ``C:\Instrument\Var``                                            |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Installing IBEX Server
----------------------

The physical installation of IBEX server on an instrument control PC is a moderately complex task, requiring the installation and configuration of several software components.  However, before the physical installation, a significant amount of preparation work is required.  For example:

* for an existing instrument, SECI configs need to be converted to their IBEX equivalents, and Open-Genie scripts need to be migrated to genie_python, new IOCs and OPIs may also need to be created.
* for a new instrument, the list of devices that comprise the instrument needs to be understood, new IOCs and OPIs will need to be created; configurations and scripts can be developed during commissioning.

If you want to install IBEX server on your instrument, please contact the Experiment Controls team.


Uninstalling IBEX
-----------------

Uninstallation of IBEX is performed by manually deleting the relevant directories as listed in `Installation Layout <https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/ibex_user_manual/wiki/Installing-IBEX/_edit#installation-layout>`_.