IBEX Menu Bar
=============

The menu bar on the IBEX GUI provides access to the application features described below.

IBEX Menu
---------
Switch Instrument
   Select the Switch Instrument menu item to re-direct the IBEX GUI to view a different instrument.

   **Please Note:** If you connect to an instrument from outside the instrument's sub-network (i.e. if you are not in the instrument blockhouse or cabin/pod), you will only be able to view the instrument (i.e. you will not be able to make changes to any of the fields).
Restore Default View
   Selecting the Restore Default View option resets the IBEX GUI display to its startup view.
Exit IBEX Client
   Select the Exit IBEX Client menu item to quit.  Please note, quitting the IBEX Client does not terminate the IBEX server, which will continue to run on the instrument control PC.

Configuration Menu
------------------
Edit Current Configuration
   Select the Edit Current Configuration menu item to make changes to the currently loaded instrument configuration.
Configurations
   Select the Configuration menu item to perform one of the following actions:

   * New - create a new configuration
   * Load - replace the current configuration with a different configuration loaded from a file
   * Edit - edit an existing configuration (independently of the current configuration)
   * Delete - delete a configuration

Components
   Select the Components menu item to perform one of the following actions:

   * New - create a new component
   * Edit - edit an existing component
   * Delete - delete a component

Recent Configurations
   Select a recently used configuration and make it the current configuration.

Synoptic Menu
-------------
New 
   Create a new synoptic.
Edit
   Select an existing synoptic and edit it.
Delete
   Select an existing synoptic to delete it. 

IOC Menu
--------
Start/Stop IOCs
   Selecting the Start/Stop IOCs menu item displays a dialog allowing you to start an IOC or to stop an IOC that is currently running.

Run-Control Menu
----------------
View Run-Control Settings
   Selecting the View Run-Control Settings menu item displays a dialog showing you which blocks (if any) are currently under run-control.  You can also assign new run-control settings to blocks and modify or remove existing run-control settings.

   The [[BlocksandGroups]] page describes how blocks under run-control are shown in the GUI.

Help Menu
---------
About
   Selecting the About menu item displays a dialog showing the current version of the IBEX client and the current version of the IBEX server (running on the instrument control PC to which you are currently connected).  If you need to report a problem with IBEX, support staff may ask you to look up this information, so that they know which version of the IBEX software you are using.
Console Log
   The console log is used by support staff to help them diagnose any problems that IBEX might encounter.
