.. _NavigateSynoptics:

Navigating Synoptic Views
=========================

In IBEX, synoptic views provide you with interactive, schematic views of your instrument.  Each icon on a synoptic view represents a device attached to your instrument.  You can tailor the synoptic view to display key PVs next to the device icons.  By double-clicking on an item, you can drill down to see more detail.

The focus of this page is navigating synoptic views.  If you wish to create your own synoptic view see [[CreateandManageSynoptics]].


Contents
--------

#. `Selecting a Synoptic View`_
#. `Navigating a Synoptic View`_

Selecting a Synoptic View
-------------------------

#. To view an instrument synoptic, click on the ``Synoptic`` button on the View Selector (see [[Views]]).
#. If a default synoptic has been defined for your current configuration, IBEX will display it.  The name of the synoptic will be displayed in the drop-down menu in the area labelled ``Synoptic Selection`` at the top of the synoptic display area.
#. If no default synoptic has been defined for your current configuration, IBEX will display ``--NONE--`` in the drop-down menu in the ``Synoptic Selection`` area and the synoptic display will be blank. 
#. You can choose to view any synoptic defined for your instrument by in the drop-down menu in ``Synoptic Selection`` area and choosing any of the synoptics listed.  IBEX will refresh the synoptic display to show your chosen synoptic.

Return to `Contents`_.

Navigating a Synoptic View
--------------------------

The synoptic view represents an instrument in a simplified, schematic form - as a linear sequence of devices.  Each device is represented by an icon.  Below each icon is an optional set of PVs, which allow you to monitor and/or control aspects of the device represented by the icon.

If the synoptic is too long to fit in the display area, IBEX will activate a scroll bar at the bottom of the display, to allow you to scroll left and right.

Clicking on an icon displays a control panel (or OPI) for the device represented by the icon.  The device control panel is displayed in a tab on the right-hand side of the IBEX window.  Screen space limitations make it impossible to show the full synoptic view alongside a device control panel so, when viewing device control panels, the display area of the synoptic view is reduced, but the left-right scroll bar is activated.

If you click on a second icon, the control panel for the second device is displayed in a new tab alongside the tab for the first device control panel.  You can repeat this action to view the controls panels for further devices.

You can also display a device control panel by using the drop-down menu in the area labelled ``Synoptic Navigation`` at the top of the synoptic display area.  This is a convenient way of displaying a device control panel on large synoptics without having to scroll to find the appropriate device icon.

When you no longer need to view a control panel, click on the "X" icon at the top right-hand corner of the tab.

Return to `Contents`_.

