IBEX provides a quick, easy way to plot a graph of a block or PV as a function of time (i.e. a "strip-chart").

Plot a Graph of a Block
-----------------------

To plot a graph of a block:

#. Select ``Log Plotter`` from the ``View Selector`` (see [[Views]]).
#. If you have not previously plotted a block, IBEX displays an empty view, prompting you to select a block.  If you have already plotted a block, IBEX restores the graph.
#. To plot a block, simply right-click on a block displayed in the Blocks & Groups view at the top of the IBEX window.
#. Right-clicking displays a pop-up menu and choose ``Display block history`` from the menu. Here you can either add the trace for this block to an existing plot, or create a new, separate plot.
#. IBEX displays a graph of the selected block as a function of time.

The graph axes will automatically adjust to the range of values that the selected block has experienced.  The graph axes are labelled with the name of the underlying PV (remember, blocks are aliases to PVs).

Plot a Graph of a PV
--------------------

You can choose a PV to be plotted from any OPI, in the same way as choosing a block.  Simply right-click on the PV and select ``Process Variable`` > ``Log Plotter`` from the menu.


Changing the Appearance of a Graph
--------------------

Along the top of the graph are a series of buttons which allow you to adjust the appearance of the graph. 

For more advanced adjustments, you can right-click and select 'Open Properties Panel' which will open a panel to the right of the graph (by default), which give you more granular control of the appearance of your graph or plot.

Plotting Multiple Traces on the Same Axis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The log plotter allows you to display multiple traces on the same value axis so they scale together. The way to do this is as follows:

1. Right click on the graph and select ``Open Properties Panel``
2. In the ``Traces`` tab, find the column titled ``Axis``
3. In the row of any trace, select the axis of the trace you want to add it to.
4. They will now be displayed along the same value axis.