.. contents:: **Contents**

Starting and Stopping IBEX Client
---------------------------------

Starting IBEX Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start IBEX Client, select IBEX from the Start icon on the taskbar of your Windows PC.  If you use IBEX regularly, it will appear in the menu of frequently used programs as soon as you click on the Start icon.  

If you have not used IBEX for some time, it might not appear on the list of frequently used programs. In this case, you can navigate to IBEX by using the Search box on the Start menu.

Alternatively, if you created a desktop short-cut to the IBEX client, double-click on the icon.

If you are on an Instrument control computer, then there may well be a shortcut pinned to the taskbar as well which you can click to launch the client.

Stopping IBEX Client
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To stop the IBEX client, select ``Exit IBEX Client`` from the ``IBEX`` menu, or clock on the ``close`` button in the top right hand corner.  IBEX will prompt you to confirm that you are sure you wish to exit.  Confirm that you wish to exit and the IBEX client will shut down.

**Please Note:**  Stopping the IBEX client does not stop the IBEX server.  The IBEX server will continue to run after you have stopped the IBEX client.  You can re-connect to the IBEX server the next time to start the IBEX client.

Starting and Stopping IBEX Server
---------------------------------

The IBEX Server is designed to run continuously.  There is no particular need for it to be started and stopped on a regular basis. If you find yourself doing so please do ensure that you have informed the experiment controls team about this, and what the trigger may be. 

The IBEX Server is a collection of mutually cooperating processes.  To start and stop the IBEX Server, these processes need to be started and stopped in the correct order - there are scripts which ensure that these processes are started and stopped correctly.  Please use the appropriate script (as described below) to start and stop IBEX Server.


Starting IBEX Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the instrument control PC, there should be a shortcut which will allow you to start the server in the programs list. This is called ``start_ibex_server.bat``. This shortcut will point to a file of that name in ``C:\Instruments\Apps\EPICS``.

This will start the server, and prompt you to wait for the ``IBEX Server Started`` message, wait for that message and then you can proceed to start the client and use the system.

Stopping IBEX Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to stop running the server, it is probably best to make sure you have stopped your client.

Similar to the ``start_ibex_server.bat`` there is a ``stop_ibex_server.bat`` which you can usually access in the same ways. There will either be a shortcut in your start menu, which points to a file in the EPICS directory.


Starting and Stopping IBEX Server After/Before Running SECI
-----------------------------------------------------------

There is a special case when you want to swap from IBEX to SECI when SECI is using IBEX as a *mini-inst* (this means IBEX is running an underlying ioc like the JASCO pump or a special DAE process). In this case there are multiple files that need to be changed to run in the two modes. To facilitate swapping there are scripts to allow you to do this easily. 

Starting IBEX Server after running SECI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start IBEX Server after running SECI, proceed as follows:

#. Use Windows Remote Desktop Connection to log in to your instrument control PC
#. Open a command window
#. At the command prompt type the following::

    cd c:\Instrument\Apps\EPICS
    start_ibex_server_close_seci.bat
    
#. Allow the script a few minutes to complete.

Stopping IBEX Server before running SECI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To stop IBEX Server and then start SECI, proceed as follows:

#. Use Windows Remote Desktop Connection to log in to your instrument control PC
#. Open a command window
#. At the command prompt type the following::

    cd c:\Instrument\Apps\EPICS
    stop_ibex_server_start_seci
    
#. Allow the script a few minutes to complete.
