.. _ProcessVariables:

Process Variables
=================

A key concept in EPICS, and hence IBEX, is the process variable.
In the underlying `EPICS <http://www.aps.anl.gov/epics/>`_ framework, a process variable (usually abbreviated to PV) is a named piece of information that can be read/monitored/changed. Information from hardware devices and elsewhere is exposed as process variables, and devices are controlled by writing to the appropriate process variables.

Naming
------

A process variable name is simply a string of alpha-numeric characters.  However, PV names are usually structured to conform to a naming convention, so that individual PV names are unique.  The colon : character is used to separate the different sections of a PV name.  At ISIS we use the following convention:

* For an instrument all process variables relevant to that instrument will start with the ``IN:`` prefix, 
* followed by the instrument name, 
* followed by the device specific details (usually device name and variable name).
 
For example 

* ``IN:LARMOR:DAE:GOODUAH`` is the PV that holds the good microamps on LARMOR
* ``IN:IMAT:DAE:GOODUAH`` is the PV that holds the good microamps on IMAT

Items not part of an instrument have a different prefix. For example, the accelerator generates values with a top-level prefix of ``AC:`` such as 

* ``AC:TS1:BEAM:CURR`` is the PV that holds the TS1 beam current


Displaying
----------

|   ``caget IN:LARMOR:DAE:GOODUAH``
|   ``camonitor IN:LARMOR:DAE:GOODUAH``

