.. _PVNamingConventions:

PV Naming Conventions
=====================

Facilities running `EPICS <http://www.aps.anl.gov/epics/>`_ usually adopt a convention for naming PVs [[ProcessVariables]].  ISIS is no exception.

The purpose of the naming convention is to
a. provide a systematic means of describing the PV
b. ensure that the name of the PV is unique (within the facility).

ISIS Naming Convention
----------------------

At ISIS, PV names are chosen to describe function, not hardware/technology - the PV name is the purpose of a channel and is abstracted from the underlying hardware; the name of the IOC (to which the PV belongs) can however reflect technology/hardware/implementation. 

The essential format of the ISIS naming convention is ``DOMAIN:SUBDOMAIN:TECHNICALAREA:DEVICE:SUBDEVICE:SIGNAL``

PV names should contain only the following characters ``A-Z``, ``0-9``, ``_``, ``:``, ``*``. Notice that lowercase characters are not allowed.  The colon character ``:`` is used to separate different elements of the PV name; therefore, do not use the ``:`` for other purposes (e.g. as part of an IOC name).  To break up individual components of a PV name into readable segments, use the underscore, ``_`` character.

In addition, PV names must start with a letter and must not end with ``_``.

Domain & Subdomain Names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Names appearing in the domain & subdomain levels include:

+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 
| Name | Description                                                                                            | 
+======+========================================================================================================+ 
| AC   | ISIS Accelerator/synchrotron related parameter                                                         |
+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 
| TG   | ISIS Target related parameter                                                                          |
+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 
| IN   | Instrument related parameter                                                                           |
+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 
| BL   | Beamline – used if multiple instruments are sharing a common set of equipment; e.g, the muon beamlines |
+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 
| TE   | Testing domain, used by local EPICS developers                                                         |
+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 

In the instrument domain, the sub-domain is the full instrument name.  For example: ``IN:GEM`` or ``IN:POLREF``.

Technical Area and Device Names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Technical Area and Device Names reflect the nature of the device that owns the PV in question.  For example:

* ``IN:GEM:MOT`` relates to PVs associated with motion control equipment on GEM.
* ``IN:ZOOM:VAC`` relates to PVs associated with vacuum equipment equipment on ZOOM
* ``IN:LARMOR:DAE`` relates to PVs associated with the DAE on LARMOR


